===>> Symmetric Encryption

    Symmetric encryption, also known as block cipher, is a sequence of digits (abbreviated as plaintext digits) coded in plain text, divided into groups of length n (can be regarded as vectors of length n), and each group is controlled by the key Down-converted into a sequence of equal-length output numbers (referred to as ciphertext numbers).
Here, AES-128 encryption algorithm is selected as the main demonstration, the length of the key is 128 bits, and the number of encryption rounds is 10 rounds.

£¨Ò»£©Principle

    The AES encryption process operates on a 4 ¡Á 4 byte matrix. This matrix is ??also called ¡°state¡±, and its initial value is a plaintext block (the size of an element in the matrix is ??a byte in the plaintext block). (Since the Rijndael encryption method supports larger blocks, the number of matrix rows may increase according to the situation.) When encrypting, each round of the AES encryption cycle (except the last round) includes 4 steps:
1. AddRoundKey round key addition-each byte in the matrix is ??XORed with the round key of this round; each subkey is generated by the key generation scheme.
2. SubBytes byte substitution-through a non-linear replacement function, each byte is replaced with a corresponding byte by means of a lookup table.
3. ShiftRows row shift¡ªCyclically shift each row in the matrix.
4. MixColumns column confusion-in order to fully mix the operations of each straight row in the matrix. This step uses linear conversion to mix the four bytes of each column.
The MixColumns step is omitted in the last encryption cycle and replaced with another AddRoundKey.
    
    The AES algorithm has five encryption modes, namely CBC, ECB, CTR, OCF, and CFB. Because the latter three modes are more complex and have fewer applications, they will not be described in detail and only demonstrate the ECB and CBC modes.

¢ÙECB mode:
The full name of the ECB mode is Electronic Codebook Book, which is the codebook mode. This mode is to divide the entire plain text into several groups of the same length, and then encrypt each group, and splice the encryption result into the final result, C = C1C2C3 ... Cn. It is basically consistent with the encryption process of the DES algorithm in ECB mode.

¢ÚCBC mode:
The full name of the CBC mode is Cipher Block Chaining. This mode first divides the plain text into several groups of the same length (same as the ECB mode). At this time, the initial vector IV is used to XOR with the first group of data before encryption. The operation generates C1. Use C1 as the initial vector and XOR with the second set of data before performing encryption operation to generate C2. By analogy, when the last set of data is encrypted, the encryption result is spliced ??into the final result, C = C1C2C3 ... Cn.

£¨¶þ£©How to use the platform£º

    The user can select the ECB or CBC mode from the encryption mode column, and the key box can enter the key by itself. The design here is AES-128, so the key length cannot exceed 16 bytes.

¢Ù Text encryption:
In text format, you can enter plain text for encryption or cipher text for decryption. This cipher text is in hexadecimal form.

¢ÚFile encryption:
Select the source file and target file for file encryption, encrypt and decrypt the characters in the source file and save to the target file. After completion, the user can see the file size and completion time.

¢Û Picture encryption:
In the picture format, you can choose the picture file to load, support the bmp bitmap format, press the encrypt picture button and decrypt the picture button to encrypt and decrypt, the new picture can be saved to the local by the save picture button, the restore original picture button The picture displayed at the time is restored to its original state.

?**********