===>> Public key Encryption

Public key encryption, which is an asymmetric encryption algorithm, is a secret method for keys.
The asymmetric encryption algorithm requires two keys: public key and private key. The public key and the private key are a pair. If the public key is used to encrypt the data, only the corresponding private key can be used to decrypt. If the private key is used to encrypt the data, then only the corresponding public key can be used. Decrypt. Because encryption and decryption use two different keys, this algorithm is called an asymmetric encryption algorithm.
RSA encryption algorithm is an asymmetric encryption algorithm. RSA is widely used in public key encryption and electronic commerce.

£¨Ò»£©Principle

   Encryption and decryption process:
1. The sender A looks up the recipient B's public key.
2. A uses the public key encryption algorithm to encrypt the plain text with B's public key as the encryption key.
3. A sends the ciphertext to B through an unsecured channel.
4. After receiving the ciphertext, B decrypts the ciphertext by his private key and restores the plaintext.

¢ÙKey generation:
1. Select two large prime numbers p and q, the two numbers are close in length and have a large difference.
2. Calculate n = p ¡Á q, ¦Õ (n) = (p-1) (q-1).
3. Randomly select the integer 1 <e <¦Õ (n) to satisfy gcd (e, ¦Õ (n)) = 1.
4. Calculate d to satisfy d * e ¡Ô 1 (mod¦Õ (n)).
Note: p and q are confidential. e and n are public keys, and d is a private key.

     ¢ÚEncryption Algorithm£º
    c ¡Ô m^e ( mod n )

     ¢ÛDecryption algorithm£º
    m ¡Ô c^d ( mod n )

£¨¶þ£©How to use the platform£º

    Users can enter public and private keys independently, or they can automatically generate public and private keys for encryption and decryption. The generated public and private keys will be stored in two files. The next time you use the platform, you can load the public key from the file Encrypt and load the private key to decrypt.

¢Ù Text encryption:
In text format, you can enter plain text for encryption or cipher text for decryption.

¢ÚFile encryption:
Select the source file and target file for file encryption, encrypt and decrypt the characters in the source file and save to the target file. After completion, the user can see the file size and completion time.

¢Û Picture encryption:
Because the encryption and decryption time of RSA pictures is too long, it is not suitable for the demonstration of the visual cryptographic platform and will not be implemented for the time being.

 **********